DOCSP-39697 Write Insert Operations (#34)
mongodb/docs-java-rs: source/write-operations/insert-documents.txt

The ``_id`` Field
-----------------

In a MongoDB collection, each document *must* contain an ``_id`` field
with a unique field value.

MongoDB allows you to manage this field in two ways:

- You can set this field for each document yourself, ensuring each
  ``_id`` field value is unique.
- You can let the driver automatically generate unique ``ObjectId``
  values for each document ``_id``. If you do not manually set an
  ``_id`` value for a document, the driver populates the field
  with an ``ObjectId``.

Unless you can guarantee uniqueness, we recommend
letting the driver automatically generate ``_id`` values.

.. note::

   Duplicate ``_id`` values violate unique index constraints, which
   causes the driver to return a ``WriteError`` from
   ``insertOne()`` or a ``BulkWriteError`` from ``insertMany()``.

To learn more about the ``_id`` field, see the
:manual:`Unique Indexes </core/index-unique/>` guide in the MongoDB Server manual.

To learn more about document structure and rules, see the
:manual:`Documents </core/document>` guide in the MongoDB Server manual.

Insert One Document
-------------------

To add a single document to a MongoDB collection, call the ``insertOne()``

> method and pass the document you want to add along with the subscribe method

Author: Q: We have a note above that says:

"This guide uses the Subscriber implementations, which are described in the [Quick Start Primer.](https://preview-mongodbshuangela.gatsbyjs.io/java-rs/DOCSP-39697-write-insert-operations/get-started/primer/#std-label-javars-primer)"

Do you think that discussing a subscribe method is necessary in this case? From what I understood, the fundamentals pages are only about code that is directly relevant to the topic. We are also planning on changing the link to the quick start primer to a page that directly describes subscribing/publishing in more depth, as it is kind of a complicated topic, but the knowledge doesn't seem truly necessary to understanding insert methods.

> method and pass the document you want to add along with the subscribe method

Author: Followup: Maybe we can have a short section about using subscriber methods or talking about how we use them, but then directing users to a different page that actually explains them?

Something like:

Subscribe methods:
The examples in this guide use the Subscriber implementations described in the XYZ page. Java Reactive Streams consists of the following components:

- [Publisher](https://www.reactive-streams.org/reactive-streams-1.0.4-javadoc/org/reactivestreams/Publisher.html)

- [Subscriber](https://www.reactive-streams.org/reactive-streams-1.0.4-javadoc/org/reactivestreams/Subscriber.html)

- [Subscription](https://www.reactive-streams.org/reactive-streams-1.0.4-javadoc/org/reactivestreams/Subscription.html)

To learn more about how these components work and how to create your own Subscriber implementations, see ABC LINK.

> method and pass the document you want to add along with the subscribe method

Reviewer: That could work. Another option is to factor out the Subscriber explanation to an `includes` file, then include it on any relevant pages.

Given the goals of 1) keeping pages short, 2) providing all relevant information to new users, and 3) avoiding redundancy in copy, which option do you think makes the most sense?

.. code-block:: java
   :copyable: true

    Document document = new Document("name", "Mongo's Burgers");
    ObservableSubscriber<InsertOneResult> insertOneSubscriber = new SubscriberHelpers.OperationSubscriber<>();
    restaurants.insertOne(document).subscribe(insertOneSubscriber);
    insertOneSubscriber.await();

Insert Multiple Documents
-------------------------

To add multiple documents to a MongoDB collection, call the ``insertMany()``
method and pass a list of documents you want to add. Use 

The following example inserts a list of documents into the ``restaurants`` collection:

.. code-block:: java
   :copyable: true

    Document doc1 = new Document("name", "Mongo's Pizza");
    Document doc2 = new Document("name", "Mongo's Coffee");

    List<Document> documents = new ArrayList<Document>();

    documents.add(doc1);
    documents.add(doc2);

    ObservableSubscriber<InsertManyResult> insertManySubscriber = new SubscriberHelpers.OperationSubscriber<>();
    restaurants.insertMany(documents).subscribe(insertManySubscriber);
    insertManySubscriber.await();

Modify Insert Behavior
----------------------

> To modify insert behavior, use the ``InsertOneOptions()`` and
> ``InsertManyOptions()`` optional methods,
> which represent options you can use to configure the insert operation.

Reviewer: S: These are [classes](https://mongodb.github.io/mongo-java-driver/5.1/apidocs/mongodb-driver-core/com/mongodb/client/model/InsertManyOptions.html), not methods

Feel free to edit this suggestion:

```suggestion
The ``InsertOneOptions`` class contains methods that modify
the behavior of the ``insertOne()`` method. To use the ``InsertOneOptions``
class, construct a new instance of the class, then call one or more of its methods
to customize the insert operation. You can chain these method calls together.
Pass the class instance and method calls as the second argument to the
``insertOne()`` method.

You can similarly modify the ``insertMany()`` method by using the
``InsertManyOptions()`` class.
```

If you don't specify any additional parameters, the driver does

> not customize the insert.

Reviewer: S: Can probably remove this; seems implied

> The ``InsertOneOptions()`` method accepts the following optional parameters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the following methods in the ``InsertOneOptions`` class
to modify the ``insertOne()`` method. All methods are optional.
```

.. list-table::
   :widths: 30 70
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Property
     - Description

>    * - ``bypassDocumentValidation``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * - ``bypassDocumentValidation(Boolean bypassDocumentValidation)``
```

     - | If set to ``True``, allows the write to opt out of
         :manual:`document-level validation </core/schema-validation>`. 
       | Defaults to ``False``.

>    * - ``toString``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * - ``toString()``
```

     - | If used, returns a string representation of the object.

>    * - ``comment``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * - ``comment(BsonValue comment)``
```

>      - | A comment to attach to the operation. For more information, see the :manual:`insert command
>          fields </reference/command/insert/#command-fields>` guide in the
>          MongoDB Server manual for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - | A comment to attach to the operation. For more information, see the :manual:`insert command
         fields </reference/command/insert/#command-fields>` guide in the
         MongoDB Server manual.
```

> The ``InsertManyOptions()`` method accepts the preceding optional parameters,
> as well as the optional ``ordered`` property:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``InsertManyOptions`` class contains the preceding methods,
as well as the following ``ordered()`` method:
```

.. list-table::
   :widths: 30 70
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Property
     - Description

>    * - ``ordered``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * - ``ordered(boolean ordered)``
```

     - | If set to ``True``, the driver sends documents to the
         server in the order provided. If an error occurs, the driver
         and server cancel all remaining insert operations.
       | Defaults to ``True``. 

Example
~~~~~~~

> The following code uses the ``insertMany()`` method as well as the
> ``InsertManyOptions()`` method to insert three new
> documents into a collection. Because the argument is
> ``bypassDocumentValidation(true)``, this insert operation bypasses 
> document-level validation.

Reviewer: S:

```suggestion
The following code uses the ``insertMany()`` method to insert three new
documents into a collection. It also uses the
``InsertManyOptions().bypassDocumentValidation(true)`` option
to bypass document-level validation.
```

.. code-block:: java

   Document doc1 = new Document("name", "Mongo's Burgers");
   Document doc2 = new Document("name", "Mongo's Pizza");
   Document doc3 = new Document("name", "Mongo's Coffee");

   List<Document> documents = new ArrayList<Document>();

   documents.add(doc1);
   documents.add(doc2);
   documents.add(doc3);

   ObservableSubscriber<InsertManyResult> insertManySubscriber = new SubscriberHelpers.OperationSubscriber<>();
   restaurants.insertMany(documents, new InsertManyOptions().bypassDocumentValidation(true)).subscribe(insertManySubscriber);
   InsertManyOptions.await();

.. Additional Information
----------------------

.. TODO:
.. For runnable code examples of inserting documents with {+driver-short+}, see
.. :ref: ADD HERE

API Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To learn more about any of the methods or types discussed in this

> guide, see the following API Documentation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
guide, see the following API documentation:
```

- `insertOne() <https://mongodb.github.io/mongo-java-driver/5.1/apidocs/mongodb-driver-reactivestreams/com/mongodb/reactivestreams/client/MongoCollection.html#insertOne(com.mongodb.reactivestreams.client.ClientSession,TDocument)>`__
- `insertMany()
  <https://mongodb.github.io/mongo-java-driver/5.1/apidocs/mongodb-driver-reactivestreams/com/mongodb/reactivestreams/client/MongoCollection.html#insertMany(com.mongodb.reactivestreams.client.ClientSession,java.util.List)>`__
- `InsertOneOptions <https://mongodb.github.io/mongo-java-driver/5.1/apidocs/mongodb-driver-core/com/mongodb/client/model/InsertOneOptions.html>`__
- `InsertManyOptions <https://mongodb.github.io/mongo-java-driver/5.1/apidocs/mongodb-driver-core/com/mongodb/client/model/InsertManyOptions.html>`__

> 

Reviewer: S: I would add `BsonValue` here, since it's used as a parameter type in one of the methods
